In this work, the concept of optimal mesh refinement was explored. This
was done through the development of a formal definition for three
fundamental mesh operations, triangle split, edge split, and node
movement; each with respect to the concept of {\it representation
deficit}. Results were given showing this methodology to be an effective
method for mesh refinement. The most effective method was found to be a
combination of the above three fundamental mesh operations and delaunay
local reconnection. The representation is also efficient in that the
interior of the domain was not overly refined in order to achieve the
desired surface representation.

\subsection{Future Work}
There are several possible directions for future work.  One avenue for
future work is to further improve the optimization algorithm in the
following two ways.  First, optimization could be employed in the
determination of which mesh operation to perform at each stage of the
optimization procedure.  Second, the objective function could be
modified in order to generate surface meshes that simultaneously
minimize the representation deficit and optimize the mesh quality.
Another possibility for future research would be to extend the surface
mesh generation algorithm to handle the volume mesh generation case so
that a hierarchical approach for mesh generation (i.e., edge
grid~\cite{mclaurin13} $\mapsto$ surface mesh~\cite{mclaurin14}
$\mapsto$ volume mesh) could be employed. This would allow for
optimization of each stage of the mesh generation procedure.  Finally,
parallelization of the algorithm would allow for optimal generation of
very large surface meshes such as those required by {\bf{Dave:  Cite a
``killer'' engineering application here.}} applications.
